# MiniApp Implementation in TinySSB
Adam Gohar, 2025-02-28

### Aim  
This document explains the process of implementing JavaScript-based MiniApps in TinySSB.

### Goal of MiniApps  
The goal is to enable developers to define and dynamically insert custom MiniApps into TinySSB clients which are capable of running a full web-browser environment – without recompiling the client. Each MiniApp accesses low-level routines, such as signing and writing new log events or receiving log notifications via an API. This approach ensures that MiniApps remain isolated from the core tinySSB logic and can be installed and run on demand.

### Structure of MiniApps
Once loaded, each MiniApp resides in its own folder within the miniApps directory of the tinySSB client. Each miniApp folder contains three subdirectories:

* assets/ – subdirectory storing binary data  
* src/ – subdirectory holding JavaScript, CSS and HTML files  
* manifest.json – defines key metadata necessary for integration

### Loading a MiniApp
The TinySSB client scans the *miniApps* directory and initializes an instance for each MiniApp, using its *manifest.json* file as input. Once initialized, a button is created in the UI to start the MiniApp.

### MiniApp-Backend Communication
MiniApps interact with the backend using a helper JavaScript file, miniAppHelper.js, which provides the miniApp API. The API covers the following functionalities:

- extend the user’s append-only log  
- receive incoming log extensions  
- reading and persisting MiniApp state

Specifically the following function prototypes are used:

- writeLogEntry(json\_string)  
  where json\_string is the stringified version of a javascript object that the miniApp wants to write into the append-only log. Note that the ID of the current MiniApp is automatically added to that log entry by the miniApp environment (see Appendix A).

- handleRequest(cmd\_string, optional\_json\_string)  
  This method has to be provided by the miniApp JavaScript code and is invoked by the miniApp environment in the following cases

  - cmd\_string \= “*incoming\_notification”*  
    In this case, the optional\_json\_string contains the payload of an incoming log entry *specific to this miniApp* (the MiniApp environment filters the incoming log events)  
    Note that a previous writeLogEntry() call will trigger an incoming notification.

  - cmd\_string \= \[“onBackPressed”, “plus\_button”, “members\_confirmed”...etc\]  
    User interface specific events also lead to a call of the handleRequest function. See the Appendix B for the full list of UI events.

- Reading and persisting MiniApp state: \[work in progress\]  
  MiniApps have the possibility to persist state that is essential for restarting the miniApp at a later point in time (without re-parsing all log entries)...

---

### Appendix A: Binary Format of MiniApp Log Entries

All MiniApp log entries share, in their payload, the following tinySSB binary entry format:

bipf\_encode(\["CUS", \<MiniAppID\>, bipf\_encode(jsonObject)\])

The “CUS” string (standing for “custom application”) is used to single out MiniApp log entries.  
The MiniAppID is a globally unique binary blob (public key of the MiniApp’s feed).  
The jsonObject payload that the miniApp wants to write into a log is the third list entry. Note that this is the object that was passed in the json stringified format to the writeLogEntry() method.

### Appendix B: List of User Interface Events

- “onBackPressed” \- triggered when the user presses the back button on the top left  
- “plus\_button” \- triggered when the user presses the plus button on the bottom right  
- “members\_confirmed” \- triggered when a user chooses contacts from the contacts menu and presses the checkmark at the bottom

### Appendix C: Fields of the manifest.json file

- “name” \- Name of the miniApp  
- “description” \- Description of the miniApp  
- “icon” \- Path to the icon of the miniApp  
- “init” \- The function that should be called when the miniApp starts  
- “id” \- The miniApp’s unique identifier  
- “cssFile” \- Path to the miniApp’s CSS file  
- “scripts” \- Array of JavaScript files used by the miniApp  
- “htmlFile” \- Path to the miniApp’s HTML file  
- “scenario” \- List of scenarios in miniApp (note: each scenario must have a corresponding div in the html file, said div should start with “div:scenarioName”, each scenario includes the following fields:  
  - “menu” \- How the menu should look like, a JSON dictionary including each menu button and the function it should call  
  - “display” \- The ids of the different html elements that are meant to be displayed when that scenario is active
